
## Meeting 2026-06-05

### Participants

#### Attendees

- Niko Matsakis
- Lori Lorusso
- Jakub Beránek
- Pete LeVasseur

#### Regrets

- xx


### Notetaker

- Pete / Niko (when Pete forgets stuff)

### Agenda

- Introduce team to bec (nikomatsakis, 2 minutes)
- Subproject review (trying to give a bit of structure here to our activities and identify de facto owners, --nikomatsakis)
    - Announcement + web presence (kobzol, 5 min)
        - What blog posts have gone up?
        - What sponsorship and funding information is publicly up?
        - What are next steps?
    - Funding request form + MiR launch (Lori, 10 min)
        - Finalize [funding form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1DhHAuxgkqiwZd6ABUOrpy0x98wog_ViO649X6lhKxCw/edit) for individuals looking for funding (10 min)
        - Explain the purpose of the form
        - Should we have a separate form for "team needs"?
        - How to handle updating/refreshing this information?
        - Where should we store it
        - Are additional steps required for MiR launch? Or will it fall out from the above?
    - Project grants (kobzol, 10min)
        - What to do with the Project Grants RFC?
        - What is the relation to Project Grants and smaller-scale Project member support?
        - Should Program managers and compiler-ops become MiRs to unify our funding support?


### Action items

- xx

### Notes and minutes

#### Introduce team to bec

Niko: Goal of the team: help maintianers get funded for the work. RFMF gets used in various ways, e.g. Maintainers in Residence.

Niko: Taking over some things done by the Leadership Council prior. Such as Project Grants.

#### Subproject review

Niko: (To Jakub) Restructured agenda to pull out initatives that we're driving. Most fell under one, so tried to structure that way.

Niko: Put an owner to help keep the initiatives moving.

##### Announcement + web presence

Jakub: Foundation and Project put out blog posts on Monday.

Jakub: Number of sponsors has more than doubled. Was initially low, but this is great.

Jakub: Discussed with Lori to have some sort of progress bar. Possibly run a campaign to bring more attention to the sponsorship opportunity.

Jakub: Saw Lori posted something about the podcast.

Lori: The total amount of money brought in since inception: $3,000. $1,000 within the last week. Power of letting people know where they can donate.

Lori: Podcast opportunity to go talk about t-funding. (Missed where). About a 1/2 hour long. Open to have both Foundation and Project have representation there.

Lori: Campaigns are great. Need to highlight things to make people excited to donate. (Amazing suggestion to put Niko in a crab suit at RustConf 2026)

Lori: Want to source out and figure out a way to strengthen the grass roots and small-dollar donations.

Lori: Maybe put Bec in a crab suit, ?? in a snake suit. Suggestions of WWE Smackdown-style event to raise dollars (lol)

Niko: Happy to sing a song!

Niko: Let's discuss targets here and on-going within the next week or so.

Lori: GitHub only does the month, but we could have monthly goals and then a larger total goal. 

Lori: Could do something like "March of Dimes" which gathers some movement around contributions.

Niko: Next 1-2 weeks to make progress?

Lori: Set up reasonable set of goals seems good. Pass to Bec for thoughts.

Bec: Break down in terms of monthly or annual. When talking about individual contributions will be relatively small amount. Want to ensure they feel they are making a difference.

Bec: $5,000 not huge in terms of grand scheme, but it's achievable. If too large, $5 or $10 will feel not helpful. Want to help those giving small dollar donations getting towards realistic goal.

Niko: Maybe set a variety of targets. If $X can do N project grants, if $Y can do M project grants or MiRs. Wonder if we should discuss sustaining contributions vs one-offs.

Lori: Sustaining member at $15 / mo for NPR. They count that as $xx per year. If $xx small-dollar donation, then there could be some concept of matching donations from e.g. the Foundation when target is met. Let the donors feel like they are making an impact on the outcome.

Bec: Might take a bit more time, but spoken of internally at foundation to increase individual participation: lots of emails for folks wanting to join the Foundation as individuals. Not possible due to bylaws and members of foundaton are those that vote for Project Directors.

Bec: Large appetite for some individual alignment with the Foundation. Maybe could be turned into some sort of subscription. Can provide a desired connection to individuals that is a donation feeding into the RFMF.

Bec: Would require a bit more thought on how to mechanize this, but this is an idea that is possible to think through and make happen.

Niko: Short-term and medium-term items here. Basic web presence vs fundraiser.

Niko: Can anyone go longer?

(All can go longer)

Lori: Can take point on fundraising. Experience with March of Dimes can help here.

Niko: Would be interested to hear if Bec would like to be involved or if there were questions.

Bec: Because haven't been directly involved leading up to formation, went through some threads, more like here to sit in and get an understanding. More than happy to join calls as often as able if useful to t-funding.

##### Funding request form

Niko: Combined MiR and Funding request form together. A way to understand where funding would be useful and who would like to do the work.

Niko: Suggestion from Jakub on reframe towards (or separate form for) teams which would like support.

Niko: Could try to hire a MiR, part-time, with the concept of "here's what we can do now".

Niko: Go off the funding request form?

Niko: Where to store it? Thoughts are to move it elsewhere and maintain and keep it fresh.

Lori: Team question is possible to be via some change to the form. Some kind of checkbox. We will follow up afterwards to get better understanding.

Lori: Already a request from Mod Team to support someone to perform triage. We should probably open the funding request form.

Lori: Unsure if we simply open up and ask Oli to submit.

Niko: Ideal: on Monday, send out the form. Ask people to fill it in. Checkbox for team-based makes sense. > 1 point of entry would make it confusing.

Niko: 2 weeks to collect up?

Pete: 2 weeks is tight to collect up. Would be good to blast out. t-content?

Jakub: Collecting on a rolling basis is important. Putting the initial contribution towards a single thing may be tough.

Niko: We should probably say "we have some funding, there will be more, please keep submitting". Some sort of communication regularly would be good to share "yes we're still looking at submissions" and allows us to be responsive if there something for $20k that would make sense.

Jakub: 2 things: (1) could potentially get another $50-70k from LC, so long as t-funding handles the grants (2) once application results then we can reach out to companies, "hey we have someone willing to support, e.g. cargo, so we know your company relies on this. willing to put in some money?"

Niko: Last thought: be well-prepared for RustConf member summit. To come and talk about this.

Bec: There's some time carved out there for people to workshop and talk about what their needs are. Time also for Rust Commercial Network. More companies in the room than just members of the Foundation.

Bec: Can allow for a dialogue. Give some key examples. Share from the Project: "from this relatively small investment, here's the sorts of benefits to all, including your company".

Niko: Action items: (1) prepare the form (2) prepare the blog post. Willing to do those things.

Pete: t-content video?

Niko: Put this out more along the angle of the fundraising drive could be helpful. Release this in a staggered fashion.

Niko: Do the form.

Pete: Do the blog post. For Inside Rust.

Niko: Concept of blog post: are you a contributor or maintainer? We're collecting information, would love to get you funded.

Jakub: All for propagating. Not 100% sure public post. Many/most would react over on the Rust Zulip. Worry about possible spam or people who are not a good match submitting. Maybe focus on Zulip for now, should probably reach enough people.

Lori: Thinking same thing (agreeing with Zulip post). Should have some sort of box there on if already contributor.

Jakub: (via chat) Yes, it's there via an open answer.

Bec: 2 weeks from Monday -- do we all have capacity, say the 2 weeks after that to review and gain consensus. Could be longer to gather submissions. From experience it's been seen that submission windows can be made longer until enough folks have availability to review and make some decisions.

Bec: Consider this as 4th of July coming up, are all members of t-funding going to be available?

Niko: Expected to post via Zulip and email. Can start there.

Niko: Framing probably not like "2 weeks then choose", more like "every couple of weeks we'll review and then get in touch". Think we'll be reviewing constantly as submissions come in. Would rather be kind of vague: find and act on opportunities.

Jakub: Let's do multiple channels.

Lori: Fireside chat with all of us once we get rolling, say 2 weeks in, would be good.

Pete: Some sort of cast onto e.g. LinkedIn and then record and post.

Jakub: We should consider "how" we will process the data once it rolls in. Some information from Dec 2025.

Pete: Some initial planning is good; we should consider how this adjusts over time as the applications roll in.

Niko: Simple as: in next meeting review what we're seeing. Perhaps look over Jakub's HackMD doc. 

Niko: Let's change over to Project Grants.

##### Project grants

Jakub: Used to have Project Grants. Part-time for some Project members and outside working on various things. An effort to restart that this year under LC.

Jakub: Was a bit blocked, e.g. should there be a different team or t-funding?

Jakub: Asked TC, originator of the grants RFC, should t-funding manage this? And he said he's waiting on hearing back from t-funding.

Jakub: We should make the decision, then we can manage both the Project Grants and the Maintainer in Residence programs.

Niko: The grants RFC from TC was a little different from the original Foundation conception, is that right?

Jakub: RFC was as a thank you to "MiR"-like folks. Some nominal amount like $500-$1000 / month as a fixed amount. Intended to be light weight. Was meant primarily for existing maintainers and contributors.

Jakub: We should be a little more flexible with it. Don't need to hardcode into the RFC.

Lori: A fan of us being a body that does the management of both programs. Helps us understand the broader scope of the needs.

Lori: Important for having money set aside for experimentation. One of the things we wanted for the Grants program in the RFC.

Lori: We have carte blanche on RFMF funds, but unclear on if we do on Grants funds. Do we need to get a thumbs up to approve things for Grants funding? To move funding from one to the other?

Niko: Two questions: (1) LC to review decisions regarding Grants program? probably no (2) is the Grants funding directed towards Grants or are we allowed to do what we wanted with it? preference would be "we would like some budget and exercise discretion to allocate"

Jakub: Makes sense to have a single team for both programs.

Jakub: Could modify form to make clear that both Grants and MiR paths are possible.

Jakub: LC lately has been going the way to delegate these sorts of decisions.

Jakub: If t-funding is willing to spend the energy to manage Grants and part-time needs, then hopes we can convince the LC we can manage this. Would think the LC would provide the budget and then entrust t-funding to make the judicious decisions on apportionment.

Jakub: Has been discussing on Zulip lately on this. General feeling seems to be that the LC would apportion the budget and t-funding would decide what to do with it.

Bec: From a purely beaurocratic perspective it makes sense for there to be a relatively small, agile team to have overview. Would allow for t-funding to develop the most coherent view of where the funding would make impact.

Niko: We are converging on: yes, we would like the ability to run the program, more flexibility than less. Will need to modify the RFC.

Niko: Will run the Grants program on a regular basis.

Niko: Would you Jakub like to take point?

Jakub: Can write on Zulip that we can take the next steps.

Lori: (via chat) Can we skip the RFC?

Niko: We might be able to.

Jakub: Gathering up feedback and then giving some sort of contract for 1 day / week. Grants are more of a lightweight way for funding.

Niko: "We'll figure it out" is a bit more practical early on like this.

Niko: Would like to set the precedence that "if there's an RFC we'd accept as t-funding"

Jakub: Can post to Zulip that we are willing to take over. If the LC is okay with that, then all that happens with Grants will be given to t-funding. We can then, later, figure out if we want to have this structured as an RFC.

### Next Meeting

Niko: Should we pick a more compatible time with e.g. Bec and Jakub? Let's work this discussion on Zulip.

##### Project goal update

xx
