## Meeting 2026-06-12

### Participants

### Notetaker

### Agenda

- Updates on our activity threads
- Project Grants
    - Discuss TC's [concern](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/301#issuecomment-4634896106)
    - Discuss how we'd like to run grants
  - What is the relation to Project Grants and smaller-scale Project member support?
- Meet RCN (Rust Commercial Network)
    - "Guest" Jess
- How to talk to Project members

### Updates on our activity threads

#### Funding request form

We put this out and we are expecting to collect data until June 19th before doing detailed review. Kobzol maintaining maintainer spreadsheet :pray:, currently 21 entries across these areas:

| Area | Count |
| --- | --- | 
| clippy | 1 |
| compiler | 10 |
| libc | 1 |
| crates.io| 1 |
| goal | 2 |
| infra | 1 |
| lang | 1 |
| libs | 1 |
| rustup | 1 |
| SCRC | 1 |


#### Project goal update

[The new page is live](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2026/funding.html) however likely needs further work. Anecdotally have heard that it is leading to contacts, which is good. Jess Izen's RCN-related work was also cited to me.

I've been talking to Wild linker about putting up a project goal related to their work and to help gather funding for that worthy effort.

--nikomatsakis

Niko: Has merged now. Has gotten feedback from Erik Jonkers already it's helpful.

Jess: Currently funded goals marked as red.

Niko: Okay, let's mark these offline.

#### Project Grants

##### Discuss TC's [concern](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/301#issuecomment-4634896106)

Niko: Let's have Jakub lead in.

Jakub: Was an RFC proposed by TC, aimed at maintainers in the Rust Project. Open question on separate team or t-funding to handle it.

Jakub: In t-funding agreed we could handle it. We'll have context, with one form. No need to exchange information to another team.

Jakub: Asked LC to delegate to t-funding.

Jakub: Had some feedback from TC on an RFC for the grants. Is it an experiment or should we write an RFC beforehand?

TC: Very specifically: concern was proposal setting expectation that RFC would not ever be proferred for it. Seems like something where would eventually expect an RFC.

Niko: Weighed in this morning with sympathy for this point of view. Best practice in the Project: experiment, high level goals, come back with RFC when sure what to write down to not prematurely write down what might not make sense.

Niko: Want team to operate transparently. Could make Project Goal around it; experiment best practice. Retro as we go, then circle back and document in an RFC.

Jakub: Perhaps misunderstanding with proposal to LC. Would like LC to designate some part of the Grants budget to add to RFMF funds. "Grant" was being used in multiple senses.

Jakub: Could have part-time MiRs. Some that can not create invoices; could pay these people with grants. "Grant" could mean the financial instrument separate from the Foundation grants program.

Jakub: Tried to enumerate those two approaches.

Jakub: Main thing to ask for is to have the funding allocated.

Niko: Riffing on that, good plan of action: gathering data for a week or so to review. Should make sure to reach out to some folks. Certain specific people like e.g. ehuss. Make sure they participate.

Niko: Wouldn't call this an RFC, but some kind of posting: here's data gathered thus far (without disclosing PII), here's some next steps we're looking into, then execute and follow up with how it went.

Niko: Could become a bit too detailed in an RFC upfront, but we should try to document some of what we have and plan to do.

Niko: Sound reasonable?

TC: Language in proposal for never offering up an RFC is desired to be removed. After some experimental period and more is understood, then draft an RFC, approved by t-funding.

TC: Don't follow argument of "grant" as financial instrument. There seem to be expectations around it.

Niko: This language? (shows)

TC: Yes.

Niko: We can revise this wording to ensure that when permanent programs, RFCs will be authored.

Jakub: Happy to modify text to change language. Has follow-up comments on financial instruments, but can take async.

#### Meet RCN (Rust Commercial Network)

Niko: Hello, guest Jess! :)

Jess: Work with Niko at AWS. Does ecosystem support internal and external.

Jess: RCN -- mix of fundraising, lobbying, community discussion group. Good way for individual engineers at companies to join, get more activity in the open. Way to get companies more involved and broaden usage of Rust.

Jess: (??) missed org breakdown

Jess: New thing: Ecosystem Fund under Foundation umbrella. Background: individual contributors via basic grants. Try to move away from Amazon funding 1-on-1. More of a chance to bring into open. Funded broadly with wide remit. Some "wins" shared occasionally.

Jess: Initial funding is mostly trying to get money flowing. "Here's the thing we'll ship so you can tell your company leadership". Some are for more basic maintenance.

Jess: RCN Steering Committee (SC) is aligned. Currently private deals happening with companies. Want to open this up and have things in the open and wider solicitation.

Niko: On some of the specifics: some are "fund Tokio"-like, and some are more on Project Goals.

Jess: (agrees)

Niko: Should be coordinating, right?

Jess: Could cut one big PO to Foundation or flow through multiple channels. Happy to put money elsewhere, whatever will work best for Project.

Niko: Just wanna make sure to note which are funded or not.

Jess: [Cranelift goal](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2026/improve-cg_clif-performance.html#funding) is good, covered in full. Might be more coming in, but enough anchoring to cover this. Ink is not dried, but we have things covered in principal.

Jess: Through grapevine, [f16](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2026/stabilizing-f16.html#funding) is on track to be funded. Cannot confirm directly. Own group not funding. Conversation yesterday on how this was split off to be fundable.

Jess: Async is funded in full. Lively. Four parties right now.

Jess: Box notation is not funded yet. Could shop this around. Need number required to fund this. Could be more funding that can be allocated.

Jess: If there are ones especially needed to pitch due to not being funded potentially.

Jess: Project goals having funding goals is important for Jess to have this info.

Lori: Benefits are that Jess is coordinating with companies that want to have things done. Important for us as t-funding to have good database of items we can offer up. Want to be supporting Jess in pitching to organizations.

Jess: One we would like to have on the Project Goals listing. Cargo namespaces (??).

Niko: Will write this down. Has been coordinating on this.

Niko: Having Wild on here would be good.

Jess: Currently has some funding ($NN USD), would be good to raise this higher ($MM USD). Concerns around x86, arm. Clean release builds. Balancing basic maintenance and features.

Jakub: How load-bearing are Project Goals supposed to be? How "closely" should they be in there? Like Tokio doesn't have one.

Jess: Niko offered one up, but don't think it's necessary in all cases.

Niko: Wild is tied to the idea that "we may want Wild to be the default linker". Also happy if we find funding for it on its own terms.

Jess: Discussed with David a bit on default linker. Could begin with things like rust-analyzer and other tools turning that on first.

Niko: Big win to get to fast builds, possibly, so wanted to post it up more visibly.

Niko: Many goals seem to be going well; review bandwidth: is this okay? We should be vetting goals descriptions. e.g. it will take 10 reviews for f16, so that's clear on the breakdown. $xk USD for work, $yk USD for reviews.

Lori: One of the office hours could focus on Project Goals and how best to define them (to solicit funding). Those can be the "shining stars" as examples on how others can best make funding requests obvious.

Jess: Workshopped with Erik Jonkers. Incremental, piece by piece. Erik worried a bit on DDoS'ing the reviewers. Would be great.

Niko: Yes, ask him to please submit it.

Jess: Prepping a funding blast; sometime next week. Will get OK'ed by SC of RCN. Could run this by t-funding. If so -- which channel?

Jess: A. wanna see it beforehand? B. ?? C. Can plug RFMF, and other funds. Kind of: you can be one of the "cool kids" by getting involved.

Niko: Funding semi-private channel for coordination might be good.

Jess: (agrees)

Lori: SC of RCN, and t-funding

Jess: Actual place to drop numbers in a good place would be nice. Semi-private.

Niko: Sounds like a good step towards a funding campaign. Would you have thoughts on individual donors on e.g. GitHub? Who's kind of running that atm?

Lori: Lori's running at the moment, but would be good to get the ducks in the row and then review in an upcoming t-funding call.

Lori: Standardized draft of questions to ask uniformally to submitters to the request for funding form.

Pete: Can I work with Lori on the announcment and drive for more funding?

Lori: Sounds good.

Niko: Would be good if "someone" extracted from what was submitted thus far.

Jakub: Could take a look and extract.

Jakub: Office hours we discussed. Could help with submitters and teams share more detail on what 

Niko: Pete? Do this?

Pete: (agrees)
